(gentle music)
Alright so here's the starter project that was available
in the last video so what we need to do is write
the check for palindrome method.
Now a stack is ideal for checking for palindromes
because what we basically want to do is reverse the string
and then compare it against the original string,
and if they're equal, then it's a palindrome.
So the stack is ideal for reversing the string
because what we do is we push each character in turn
and then because when pop, it's last in first out,
we can pop the characters out and either
compare them against the original string one by one.
Or what we can do and this is the approach I took is
to pop the characters out and append them to a
StringBuilder and then we can just compare the two strings.
Now the wrinkle here is the punctuation and the spaces.
And so the approach that I took was,
I'm using the LinkedList class for the stack
and I have a StringBuilder that I used to build up the
original string with punctuation and spaces stripped out,
and of course the strings also lower cased.
And as I'm doing that, I'm pushing characters that aren't
punctuation and aren't spaces onto the stack
and once I've done that,
what I have is a stack with all of the characters
from a to z in the string and I have a StringBuilder
that contains the original string but with
punctuation and spaces stripped out.
And then all I do is pop all the values off the stack,
and append them to a string builder, and then at the end
I just compare the two string builder values
and if they're equal it's a palindrome.
So that's the approach I took,
you may have taken a different approach.
As long as calling the methods returns what we expect,
then your solution is good, it doesn't have to match mine.
You may have chosen a different class for the stack,
you may have taken a different approach for dealing
with the punctuation, and that's fine.
Just like with algorithms having many implementations,
challenges can have many solutions.
And so I'll show you one solution,
and you may have come up with something different.
Okay so the first thing I'm gonna do is create my stack,
and as I said I'm gonna use the LinkedList class,
so I'm gonna say LinkedList,
and I'm gonna store characters on this stack,
stack = new LinkedList.
And so that's the stack I'm gonna use, it's currently empty.
And then I'm gonna create a StringBuilder as I'm looping
through the string that we've been passed
and pushing characters onto the stack,
I'm also going to be appending the non-punctuation,
non-space characters into a StringBuilder.
And so I'm gonna say,
StringBuilder stringNoPunctuation = new StringBuilder
and I'm gonna give it a length of string.length
because that's the largest we're gonna need.
And now I'm gonna say String lowerCase = string.toLowerCase
and of course sting is the value that we've been passed.
So this basically just lower cases the string in one shot.
I could do it character by character
but I've just lower cased them all.
So I don't have to worry about doing it
when I'm looping through the characters in this string.
Alright, so the next thing I'm going
to do is loop through this string character by character
and I'm going to push characters
that have a value from a to z onto the stack.
And I'm also going to append them
to this stringNoPunctuation StringBuilder.
So at the end of the loop my stack will be filled
with all the non-punctuation and non-space characters.
And I'll have a StringBuilder that has the original string
with all the punctuation and all the spaces removed
and of course it'll also be in lower case.
So I'm gonna say,
for (int i = 0; i < lowerCase.length(); i++).
I'm gonna say, char c = lowerCase.charAt(i).
So this gets us the character in the string at position i.
And I'm gonna say, if(c >= 'a' && c <= 'z')
then I'm interested in this character.
This means that it's between the characters a to z inclusive
and so it's not punctuation, it's not white space
and so I want to add this character
to my string NoPunctuation StringBuilder
and I also want to push it onto the stack.
So I'm gonna say stringNoPunctuation.append(c)
and so that's appended it to my StringBuilder.
And I'm gonna say stack.push(c) and so when we drop out
of this loop my non-punctuation, non-white space characters,
have all been pushed onto the stack
and this StringBuilder contains the original string
in order from left to right with all the punctuation
and white space removed and its also been lower cased.
So now I need to create my reverse string.
Now I could have taken the approach here
to loop through this string and popped out characters
and compare them but instead I'm just going
to pop all of the characters off the stack
and append them to another StringBuilder.
So I'm going to say,
StringBuilder reversedString = new StringBuilder
and we're gonna make it stack.size() because ...
And that should be StringBuilder.
Okay I'll finish my other sentence now.
We're gonna make it stack.size
cause that's the largest StringBuilder we should need.
And then I'm gonna say, while(!stack.isEmpty())
reversedString.append(stack.pop())
and so what I've done here is,
I'm popping off the characters that I pushed.
And all the characters I pushed are between a to z.
And so, every character that's being popped off is
between a and z inclusive and so at the end
of this I have the original string reversed
but without the punctuation
and the white space which is what I want.
And so all I have to do now is compare this reversedString,
against the string with no punctuation
because this has the string that reads
from left to right with no punctuation.
And this has the string that reads from right to left.
So if they're equal it's a palindrome.
If they're not equal it's not a palindrome.
And so all I have to do is say
and in fact I don't need to add a line,
I can just modify this,
return reversedString.toString().equals
(stringNoPunctuation.toString()) and so this is saying
that if the string and the reversed StringBuilder,
equals the string in the stringNoPunctuation StringBuilder,
we have a palindrome.
If they're not equal we don't have a palindrome.
And so that's my solution
and as I said yours might be different.
You might have taken a completely different approach.
As long as these return what we expect, we're good.
So we're gonna expect true, true,
true, false and true printed when I run.
So let's go ahead and do that now.
And we get true, true, true, false and true.
And so that's one solution to the challenge.
I hope you did well.
If your solution does differ from mine
and I'm sure it does in some way
cause there's quite a number of different approaches
that you could have taken to solve this problem.
As long as you used a stack,
so as long as you're calling push and pop somewhere
and as long as you get the results true,
true, true, false, true your solution is good.
Alright so that's it for stacks.
I'll see you in the next section.